

About Myself




I am Gjhaanendra jha.I am from Jamshedpur.
I am doing my final year BCA at Annamalai University.



About my Father



My Father has been a Tata Steel officer.
Now he is a retired Officer.
My father is a good man.
He is an early riser.
He goes out for a morning walk.



About my Mother



My Mother is a home maker.
She also sings maithli folk songs.
She is an early riser.
She goes out for a morning walk.She 
spends some time in the garden everyday.

I have one younger brother and one elder sister.
We all are married.

I find my parents very affable.



About my younger brother




My younger brother is a chartered accountant and
he has been a tata steel officer.
He has been the head
of accounts division at projon which is the BPO sector of Infosys.
Now he is working at Katter-Piller in Banglore.
My relationship with him is emotional.
Whenever I get hurt,he gets emotional.
whenever I get angry,he tries to make me calm by saying a good word. 
He got married last year on 28th May.
His wife is also a chartered accountant at goldman sacks in Banglore.




About my elder sister


My elder sister is a music teacher.
She is a hard working woman.
She looks after her children nicely.
She cooks a delicious food.She is a good painter.
She got married 15 years ago.
Her husband is a mechanical engineer.
He is working at the steel plant in Visakhapatnam.
He did his Bachelor of Technology at RIT Jamshedpur.
My relationship with them is good.





About myself


I am a hard-worKing,descent man.
I have three members in my family.
I have a nine-month baby.She is very beautiful and charming.
My wife is doing her post graduation at
Women's college Jamshedpur.She is a very good house wife.
She is very good at handcrafts and making soft toys.
I got married on 24th June 2005. 






My aim is to be a successful person in my life.
To me success means achieving the target I set.
getting the job in a BPO sector is one of
my targets.


I would like to join the BPO because
I like communicating with people and it is the place where one can
show ones verbal communication skills. It is a booming industry.
It recognizes hard work.It has a good working environement.
It has a good remuneration package.
Employees satisfaction is there.
One can start one's career as an executive.




Genpack is one of the best and the biggest BPO
sector in India.I would love to work in it.
We can learn while we earn.



I believe in hard work and honesty.
To me honesty means being truthfullness to others.


I love children and respect elders.
I don't smoke.I don't drink.
I always try to make others happy.
I am fond of listening to music.
I feel good while listening to a song.
My hobby is playing the tabla.
I like having a veg food because it is good for health and 
a healthy mind lives in a healthy body.
But I like to have a non-veg food at a special moment 
because I am not a pure vegetarian 
and I can't resist myself.



My bad habit is to have a cup of tea in the mornings and in the evenings.
Otherwise I have a headech.
My weakness is to have a delicious food in excess.
However I know it will increase my weight and 
overweight makes people unhealthy.



My favourite color is Black.
because It is the darkest color and whenever
our clothes get dirty,it doesn't come into
the notice of people.
Also it matches with any light color.



I like a indian rose.
The indian rose is very sweet and lovely.
It is of different colours.It makes me happy.







Where do I see myself after five years ?

After five years,I see myself working
in a good position.I see myself a
more accountable person and a team leader.









About my Holidays

I generally don't go for a holiday.
But I went to vizag with my family where my sister lives.
She lives in ukkunagaram.
It is a steel plant twonship.It takes one hour to
reach there from the railway station.

During the holidays I  saw the sea and 
It was a wonderful moment because
that was the first time when we saw the sea.

We went to the gangavaram beach also 
which is located across the steel plant.
We had to enter into the plant and 
then we reached the beach.
Also We had to take permission from the union.
Since more accidents happened at the beach.
Therefore it was banned to visit that beach.

we went to the Apiconda beach also 
which was very near to our home.
There was a small village near the beach.
It is located beside the plant.
So we didn't need to enter into the plant.
The beach was very lonely place.No visitor was there.

We also went to the R.K beach which was in the main city.
It was for the visitors.
There was a park and many shops.
The park was well maintained.

We saw the zoo and It was so big that we got tired because we had to visit
the zoo on foot.The weather was not good.
The sky was black.
It was raining.

We saw the simhachalam hill.
We went up the hill along the road by car.
At the top of the hill there was a beautiful garden and
a big image of Shiva Parvati.
we could see the city from the top of the hill.

We saw the Annawaram temple where people worship the sataynarayan god.
The temple was at the top of a hill.
We had to go up the hill along the road by a car.
we could see the city from the top of the hill.






About my school days

When I was a child.I used to go neighbourhood school at 2.
It was only upto 3rd standered.This was my first school.
I used to cry and prefer to stay at home.I didn't like to
go to school.My miss always complained my parents.

Then I got admitted at Tisco school at 5.
It was primary school.
It was only upto 5th standered.
It had a very good faculty members.
It had a big playground.
It was a big school.
It had many students.
There was a co-education system.
It had a colourful school uniform.
The boys used to wear sky colour shirt and blue colour half pants.
The girls used to wear frok.
There were two examinations every year
in our school.After six months 
there was a half yearly examination
and after the next six months 
there was an annual examination.
We used to play football.
It had no canteen.But there were lots of
hawkers outside school at the tiffin time.
They used to sell itly,channa,
and chocolates.We used to bring tiffin from home.
However we used to eat the channa and the itly.




I used to get punished many times by my teachers.
I didn't use to do homework.I used to fight with others.
I used to dance and one of my friends used to play the
tabla on the bench.I was very naughty.
Once I wrote a girl name on the small piece of paper and Kept it in a cap.
The cap belongs to the NCC boy sitting next to me on the same bench.
It had a hole in its inside plastic.
After some time he saw that paper.He complained to the teacher.
I was called and beaten with a stick on my palm.






After primary school I got admitted at high school in the 6Th standered.
It was also a Tisco school.
There was not a co-education system in school.
The boys used to wear sky colour half short and
blue colour full pants.There was a very big lab.
There was a computer lab also.






The most memorable days were

When my matriculation result was published.
I brought the newspaper from my neighbour.
I saw my roll number On the first division list.
I was happy and so were my family members and friends.
I went to the market and bought some sweets.
we had sweets.After some time I saw my roll number on the
second division list.I got worried  till my school reopened.
When it opened.I went to the school to enquire about my result.
I got happy knowing that It was nothing but a printing mistake.
But I had to wait for a week for this happiness.Those days
were a mixture of both happiness and sadness.


Then I got admitted at Mrs.K.M.P.M Inter college.
It was under Tata Steel.It had a very good faculty members.
It had a small playground.It had many students.
There was a co-education system.We used to wear 
a college uniform.It had a science stream,an art stream,
and a commerce stream.I was a science student.I also 
used to play tabla at the college function.





About my best friend





My best friend is Dilip.
He has given me many software packages.
He is my neighbour.
He and i are both together at Annamali university.
We used to developed softwares together.
We have earned money together.
He has been my business partner also.
Sometimes he sends students to me to teach them.
Whenever my computer breaks down,
he makes it to work.
As he knows hardware also.
I hope he will remain my best friend.






About mY town


I live in a cosmopolitan city.Its name is Jamshedpur.
There are many good schools and colleges here.Some of
the schools for children are the best in Jamshedpur.
There are many good coaching centres here.It has a very
good educational environment.Since it is an industrial
town.Many people working at plants have good educational
background.They are engineers,doctors,charted accountants,MBA etc.
They also support students to achieve thier goal.
There are many good music teachers here.They teach how to
Play instruments and sing a song.Since people in Jamshedpur
have come from different states and regions.Therefore You can
learn different types of folk music also.Most of the schools
organise musical programme,dance programme,drama and fashion show
time to time in their school.
They train their children in every
field.That is why there are some examples 
at the top position from Jamshedpur.
And I hope there will be many examples in future.




There are hospitals also.Most of the hospitals belong
to the big company like Tata Steel and Tata motors.
There is a Govt. hospital here.There are many nursing
home here.We get good doctors here.There is only one
cancer hospital in Jharkhand which is in Jamshedpur.



There is a children park and a very big park in Jamshedpur.
The children park has many things to enjoy.The big park name
is Jublee park.It has an attractive fountain and lighting.It has
a rose garden.It is also a picnic spot.

There is a small zoo in this town.It has a lake where people can boat.
The children park,Jublee park 
and the zoo belong to Tata steel.
Hardly anyone who visits Jamshedpur miss these places to visit.
Almost everyone goes there to enjoy.
I seldom go there to enjoy.
There is a good nursery in the park where you can buy
different types of plants at very low rate.



I am afraid this township is not a planned township.Because
it is an old township.The roads are not in a 
planned way.That is why there are many accidents happen here.
The houses are not in a sector wise.However the roads are
wide and pleasent.We can see the trees and plants both
sides of the roads.But those roads which are not maintained
by Tata Steel are not wide and pleasent.We had no footpath
beside the roads.Therefore it has just been built by Tata steel.
Those roads which were narrow has been widen by Tata steel.


The Water supplied by tata steel is neat and clean.
The electricity provided by Tata Steel is 24 hours.  
Most of the areas are covered by Tata Steel for electricity and water supply.Its
service is liked by everyone.



There are many villages in Jamshedpur where farmers live.
That is why we get fresh vegetables every day.There are many
pots and a river in Jamshedpur where the fishermen catche 
the fish everyday and sell it.
The river name is Swarnrekha.
It is famous for its gold mines.


There is a big lake here.The lake is called Dimna lake.
It is a very good picnic spot.

There is a mountain here called Dalma.
It has a big forest.
It has many wild animals.
It is famous for its elephents.


There used to be six ciname halls here.but now I think
there is only one or two cinema halls in Jamshedpur.

There are many social activists here who help the poor.
There are many good politicians here who fight for the people.
The people co-operate the polticians,the govt. officers  
to maintain the peace and law and order.
The people celebrate every festivals together to enjoy.

New Shops are opening everyday.Those employees who leave the
company prefer to stay in Jamshedpur.That is why new houses
are being built.The Govt. Supports and invites many big companies
to set up their plants in Jamshedpur.That's why some industries
are to be set up here.
I hope it will be a beautiful town in future.





About Examination


An examination is not a terror to good students.
they study regularly all the time and prepare themselves for 
examinations.They Welcome examinations,
because they want to prove their merits.
An examination tests them and gives them rewards.
How can the worth of gold be tested unless it is heated ?
How can a soldier claim to be brave if he dare not fight ?
In the same way,an examination,too,is a test of one's merits.






About Science and technology



We are living in a time of great and continuing changes.
The most obvious feature of the modern world is the enormous
development of science and technology.
This has given man a deeper understanding of nature,so that
there is a possibility of providing a good life to every human being.

Science causes changes in society.
The new technology is itself leading to greater progress in science.
Advances in science lead to improvements in technology.

Science helps us to remove superstition and to search for truth.
Science and technology helps us to use more energy.
It provides good medical and educational services,electricity supply,
drinking water,drainage etc.





About Friendship

True friends are rare in the world.He who has got a true friend
is really fortunate.A true friend wishes his friend well.He consoles
him in his bad days and encourages him to do good things.He does not
want any return from his friend.He never gives him wrong advice.But
false friends leave him in evil days.
They are friends just for thier own selfish ends.
So long as their selfishness is involved,they make a show of friendship.
They cheat us when we are in trouble.Beware of such false friends.










